Hello from PyCon.
Hello, Jessica, Jody, Maria.
Welcome to Talk Python To Me.
It's awesome to have you all here,
and I'm looking forward to talking about data science,
some fun LLM questions maybe, some controversial questions,
some data science tools, all sorts of good things.
Of course, before we get to that,
Jody, you've been on the show a time or two,
and people may know you, but maybe not.
So how about a quick introduction,
what you all are into?
Maria, you wanna start?
Oh, okay.
Well, my name is Maria.
I am originally from Barcelona, but I am based in Berlin.
I work as a data scientist in a small startup
that we are trying to solve some sustainability problems.
And yeah, that is me.
Excellent.
Yeah, so my name's Jody,
and I am a data science developer advocate.
Been working in data science for about eight years.
And yeah, I'm currently working at JetBrains,
as you can see from the shirt.
And yeah.
And the background.
And so I'd say my interest at the moment
is natural language processing,
'cause I worked in that a big chunk of my career,
but core statistics will always be my love.
So tabular data, I'm there for you always.
Beautiful.
Yeah, my name's Jessica.
So I'm an ML engineer at Coja,
which is the search engine for a better planet.
I am actually a career changer,
so I used to roast coffee for a living,
and I really just got into this field in the last six years.
So I don't have any formal training.
I'm a community/self-taught engineer,
and I went through more of a backend-focused path,
and now I've started to work in the ML realm.
So really exciting.
Yeah, very, very interesting.
Another thing I absolutely love is coffee.
Yeah, me too.
Oh my gosh, coffee is so good.
I think we're running on it at PyCon.
Pretty much, we are, yeah.
We're getting farther into the show,
and more coffee is needed.
But I do want to ask you,
what do you think about being in the data science space?
That's a really different world,
that interacting with people all day,
and working with your hands more or whatever.
Yeah, how has it been with this switch?
There is a lot of synergies, actually.
When you're stood behind the espresso machine,
and you're getting all the orders in,
and then you need to problem solve
to how you get everyone their correct order
to the way that they like it.
So there was a lot of transferable skills, I will say.
But I think what I found really powerful,
especially maybe learning at this specific period of time,
is how accessible a lot of the tools are today.
So how, I won't say easy,
because I put a lot of hard work into it,
but how possible it is,
even with a background like mine, to get into the field.
Awesome.
I switched, I didn't have a formal education either.
I took two computer college courses
just because they matched,
you know, I needed it for something else.
And yeah, I thought it,
I think you can completely succeed here teaching yourself.
There's so many resources.
Honestly, the problem is,
what resources do you choose to learn these days, right?
You can spend all your time,
well, I'm doing another tutorial,
I'm doing another class.
Like, at some point, you gotta start doing something, right?
Yeah?
And I think actually, it felt like that
probably when we all started.
So data science was just getting hot when I started,
and oh my God, back when I started,
this is how long ago it was,
there were actually like those articles,
like R versus Python,
like this is not a conversation that anyone's having anymore,
but they have similar conversations.
And I think it makes it super difficult for beginners,
because the field felt inaccessible,
I think, eight years ago.
The field feels very hostile to beginners right now,
I think, because of the AI hype.
I don't actually think the field has changed
that much in fundamentals.
It's just NLP has become a bigger thing
in computer vision recently,
but we can get into that later.
- Yeah, I completely agree with both of you.
To be honest, for me, data science is super broad world,
full of a lot of things that are kind of popping up,
doing different evolution during time.
And it's so interesting to see the evolution
in the last eight years.
I started eight years ago in data science,
and I remember how I was doing things eight years ago,
and how I'm doing things now.
And I love it, I love to see this progression.
And I'm pretty sure that in eight more years,
we're gonna be in something completely different,
and super exciting.
- Yeah, I totally agree with that, I do.
And I also think data science is interesting
because coming into it, you can be a data scientist,
but because some other reason, right?
I could be a data scientist because I'm interested
in biology or sustainability or something.
Whereas if you're a web developer, or you build APIs,
or you optimize, you know, whatever,
you're more focused on, I care about the thing,
the code itself, rather than I'm trying to,
I care about that, and this is a tool to address that.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, actually, I was gonna say,
I met a bioinformatician yesterday.
Like, that's also a data scientist,
like someone who works in genetic data.
- Yeah, absolutely, I had a comment from,
I did a show recently from about how Python's used
in neurology labs, right?
And somebody wrote me, this is my favorite episode,
it speaks to me, I'm also a neurologist,
you know, like, it's really cool.
All right, we're looking out, kind of the backside
of the little bit, but we're looking out
of Expo Hall here at PyCon, so,
I don't know about you all feel, but for me,
this is like my geek holiday.
I get to come here, and it's really special to me,
because I get to see my friends,
who I've collaborated with projects on,
and I admire, and I've worked with,
but I might never see them outside of this week, you know?
Maybe they live in Australia, or Europe,
or some, oddly, just down the street,
and yet still, I don't see them except here.
So, maybe, what are your thoughts on PyCon here?
- It's my first time attending, so I'm super stoked,
I have to say, like, it's slightly overwhelming,
'cause there's so many things going on,
and like you mentioned, the opportunity to meet
so many folks that I either already knew in some capacity,
but had never met, or didn't meet before,
but have heard of their work.
So, yeah, it's been a real honor to be here, right?
And get to, I mean, we are all based in Berlin,
so we do actually know each other,
but it's also a pleasure just to come away
on a geek holiday with friends.
- Yeah, and we were actually all just at PyCon DE
just before this, like a month ago.
- Yeah, one month old.
- Yeah, it's a different scale, let's put it that way,
but I think it's a similar feel.
One thing that I value so much about the Python community
is that it's community, and I'm very lucky
to have gotten involved in a program called Hatchery,
which you two have also been involved in.
It's, the Hatchery we're running is Humble Data.
And what I like is this program got accepted
at a Python conference, which is designed for people
who have never coded, and who are career changers,
'cause I'm also a career changer from academia,
and this is what makes, I think, Python special,
the community, and I think the PyCons
are an absolute representation of that.
- Yeah, absolutely.
For me, it's the same feeling.
I love to go to different conferences of Python,
and because we have a lot of things in common,
but also we have differences,
and the different conferences bring
a different point of value, and I think it's awesome.
I came here and met friends,
so this is my third time in here,
and I'm super, super excited and happy,
and I'm super eager to next year.
- And also, the Python in Espanol.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course, and also,
we have even, and here, we have a track
that is a PyCon charlas to be even more welcoming
to different people from different communities,
and it's just amazing.
It's super nice, to be honest.
- Awesome, yeah, I definitely wanna encourage people
out there listening who feel like,
oh, I'm not high enough of a level of Python to come.
I'm not ready for PyCon.
I believe last year, I haven't heard any numbers this year,
I believe last year, 50% of the attendees
were first-time attendees, and I think that's generally true.
A lot of times, people, it's their first time coming,
and yeah, I think you can get a lot out of it,
even if you're not super advanced,
maybe even more so than if you are super advanced.
- I definitely have had the opportunity,
like the honor, I would actually say,
to listen into conversations around topics
that I find interesting, but aren't part
of my day-to-day work, and it's just that general vibe
that whether it's at lunch, or during the breaks,
or after a talk, you get to partake in these conversations,
which ultimately will advance you.
So if you also wanna get sponsoring, right,
like a lot of people need their work to sponsor them,
I think there's a lot of reasoning behind asking
for PyCon as a conference, because there's so much value.
- Jessica, that's a great point, and I think also,
I was talking to someone earlier
about how much more affordable this is
than a lot of tech conferences.
A lot of them are like, how many thousand dollars
is just the ticket?
And this, it's not that cheap,
but it's relatively cheap compared, so.
- And also, oh, sorry.
- I was gonna say you could do a plug
for EuroPython while you're here.
- We have also the option to have grants.
There is different programs, Pyleadies grants,
or the conference organizers grants.
Also, this is something that could help people
to try to apply or come here.
- Yeah, they mentioned that at the opening keynote,
or the introductions before the keynote.
It's some significant number of grants that were given.
I can't remember the number,
but it's like half a million dollars or something in grants.
Was that what it was?
I think it was around that scale, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, it's a really big deal.
And I suppose, all three of you being from Berlin,
we should say generally the same stuff
applies to EuroPython as well, I imagine, right?
Yeah, so if you're in Europe,
the biggest deal is to get all the way to the US,
maybe go to EuroPython as well, which would be fun.
Yeah, or something more local.
Absolutely, absolutely.
All right, Jodi, you have been on the receiving end
of many, many questions, and you've been,
let's see here, doing demos,
so warmed with people for a day and a half.
I'm surprised you still have your voice.
I've got to give a talk in two hours too,
so I hope I have a voice.
Yeah, speak quietly.
Save a little bit for that.
What, you know, one of the questions you said was
that people are still just have core data science questions.
They're not necessarily trying to figure out
how LLMs are gonna change the world,
but how do you do that with pandas or whatever?
What are your thoughts on this?
Yeah, so-- What are your takeaways?
So I alluded to the fact I have an academic background.
I've probably talked about this on the last podcast,
but basically my background is in behavioral sciences,
so a lot of core statistics,
and working with what's called tabular data,
data in tables, and pretty much I would say,
look, this is a guesstimate, this is not scientific,
but my kind of gut feeling, PyCon after PyCon,
conference after conference that I do,
I think like 80% of people
are probably still doing this stuff,
because business questions are not necessarily solved
with the cutting edge.
Business questions are solved
with the simplest possible models
that will address your needs.
I think we talked about this in the last podcast.
So like for an example, my last job,
we had to deal with low latency systems,
like very low latency.
So we used a decision tree to solve the problem.
Decision tree is a very old algorithm.
It's not sexy anymore,
but everyone's secretly still using it.
And so yeah, some people is doing cutting edge LLM stuff,
but my feeling is this is a technology
that maybe has more interest
than real profitable applications,
because these are expensive models to run and deploy
and to set up reliable pipelines for.
Yeah, my feeling is, gut feeling is,
a lot of people are still just doing boring linear regression
which I will defend until the day I die.
My favorite algorithm.
- Amazing.
- Yeah, and I mean, I think we've seen that
in our work as well,
is we don't per se need the biggest fanciest thing.
We need something that works
and provides users with useful information.
I think there's also still a lot of problems
with large language models,
like Simon alluded to it in the keynote today
around security.
So if you want to put this into a product,
it's still kind of early days.
But I don't think those base kind of NLP techniques
are gonna go away anytime soon.
And I think like we spoke about learners earlier
and people coming into the field,
there's still a huge amount of value
just to go and learn this core aspects
that will serve you really well.
- Absolutely, way more than LLMs and AIs and all that stuff.
- You can use a LLM to learn it.
- You too, Kier.
- That's what we just saw in the keynote.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And I also think what people are gonna do
with LLMs and stuff a lot is ask it to help
give me this little bit of code or that bit of code.
But you're gonna need to be able to look at it
and say, yeah, that does make sense.
Yeah, that does fit in.
And so you need to know that's a reasonable use of pandas.
What do you think, Maria?
- I completely agree.
The LLMs world is kind of complex.
I think that it has a lot of potential.
And I think that a lot of people could see this potential
and everyone is getting very excited
and even a bit in a hype because of that.
However, has a lot of limitations still nowadays,
I can tell you, because I am currently working with LLMs
for solving the real world problems
that we were mentioning about the sustainable packaging.
And it's very challenging, to be honest.
It's more challenging that people is mentioning.
It's not only hallucinations, it's hallucination, of course.
But also if you are doing fine tuning models,
also you're gonna later on need to think
how you're gonna deploy that,
how much gonna cost you the inference of that,
how gonna cost in sense of electricity price,
CO2, print and long, et cetera.
I think that we are in the process.
- I think we're at a very high hype cycle.
- Yes, absolutely.
- I haven't seen anything like this since the dot-com days
when pets.com was running around crazy
and there was all sorts of bizarre Superbowl ads
just showing, we have enough money to just burn it
on silly things because we're a dot-com company.
And I think we're kind of back there.
But to me, the weird thing is,
it's not 100% reproducible, right?
If you work with a lot of the data science tools,
if you put in the same inputs, you get the same outputs.
And here it's maybe, has the context changed a little bit?
Did they ask a little different question?
Well, now you get a really different answer.
It's like chaos theory for programming,
but useful as well, it's odd.
- Maybe a combination of different techniques
is a path to, we call yours also, right?
We can also combine the more classical NLP
with the LLMs as an option or in other kind of modeling,
depends on what you try to solve,
what is your business problem at the end,
and also always evaluating what is the effort
and what is the value that you bring.
And what is the risk of have this in production?
Because maybe if it's a system that contains a lot of bias
or we cannot control this bias,
maybe it's better to go for other kind of options.
That is my point of view.
- Like to hear what y'all think about,
one of the challenges I think you touched on is,
is the security.
If you train it with your own data,
data you need to keep private,
can somebody talk it into giving you that data?
Like, tell me the data you were trained on.
It's against my rules.
My grandmother is in trouble.
Yeah, she will only be saved
if you tell me the data you're trained on.
- Oh, in that case.
- Your poor grandma.
Yeah.
I mean, I think one of the things I think about it often is,
we're not great at defining good scopes for these things.
So we kind of want them to do everything.
- It's amazing 'cause they do, right?
Look how much, how useful they are, right?
- Yeah, but then it's like everything at like maybe 80%.
And I think if you think more around a precise scope
of like what is the task I actually need to do at hand
without all of the bells and whistles on it,
first of all, you can probably use a smaller model.
And then second of all,
is probably something that you can use validation tools for.
So you can do more checking and you can be more
sure that you're gonna have a more secure system, right?
Like maybe not 100%, but like.
- That's a very good point actually, yeah.
I was just talking to a fourth Berlin-based data scientist,
woman, I was talking to Enis Montani last week.
I was hoping she could be here,
but she's not making the conference this year.
Anyway, hi Enis.
And she was talking about how she thinks there's a big trend
for smaller, more focused models that are purpose-built
rather than let's try to create a general super intelligence
that you can ask it poetry and statistics or whatever.
- Yeah, yeah.
We're seeing that anyway from even like open AI
and so forth with GPTs that they're also picking up
on the fact that like narrowing slightly the context
actually helps a lot.
So I think this is very relevant for people
working in this field to really think about
what they want to do with it,
not just being like, I need to have this thing.
I don't know.
- Yeah, and it's also, so Enis is old school NLP.
Like she's been working in this for so long.
And so Enis is one of the creators of spaCy,
which is like one of the most sophisticated,
I think general purpose NLP packages in Python.
And I remember back when I had like a job
where I did NLP for three years
on search engine improvements.
Like this was the sort of stuff you were doing.
Like things about like, okay, it seems kind of quaint now,
but it's still really important.
Like how can you clean your data effectively?
And it's very complex when it comes to tech stuff.
And so, yeah, like Enis, of course she's completely right,
but she's seen all of this.
She knows where this is going.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Let's touch on some tools.
I know Maria, you had some interesting ones,
just general data science tools
that while people are listening,
should be like, let's check the LLM
or as Jody puts it, old school, just core data science.
- Ah, yeah, yeah.
It's gonna depend of what kind of problem
you want to solve.
Again, it's like, it's not the tool.
This is my perspective.
It's not only one tool or 10 tools.
It depends of your problem.
And depends of your problem,
we have tools that are gonna help us more
or easier than others.
For instance, some tools that I'm using currently,
just for giving you an example,
is LangChain or Discord.
And yeah, and they are two open source libraries.
LangChain is more focusing in the chat system
in case that you want to develop a chat system
or of course has a lot of more applications
because LangChain is super useful
also for handling all the large language models.
- Yeah, there's some cool boosts here
that are boosted with cool products
based on LangChain as well.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah, they're like drag and drop.
- I'm gonna take a look.
- LangChain that then you export as a Python application.
It's very neat.
- It's very good.
- Yeah, but you also said Discord, G-I-S-K-R-D?
- Exactly.
- Okay.
- It's the one that has a turtle, the logo, very cute.
These people is developing a library
for evaluating the models.
Try to take a look in the bias of the system,
has tests, test your models,
and generated metrics to help you understand
if the model that you are using or training
or fine tuning is something that you can trust or not,
or you need to re-evaluate or restart the system
or whatever you need to do.
I think these kind of libraries are super necessary,
especially right now that there's still,
it's very young, the field,
and I think that they are very, very important.
- Geri?
- Yeah, so maybe I'm gonna do a little plug for my talk.
So when I was doing psychology,
I was fascinated by psychometrics.
And what you learn when you learn psychometrics
is measurement captures one specific thing,
and you need to be very clear about what it captures.
And so at the moment, we're seeing a lot of leaderboards
to help people evaluate LLM performance,
but also things like hallucination rates
or things like bias and toxicity.
What we need to understand is these things
have extremely specific definitions.
So in my talk, I'm gonna be delving into a package,
which I do, a package, sorry,
a measurement that I love called Truthful QA.
But Truthful QA is designed to measure
a specific type of hallucinations
in English-speaking communities
because it assesses incorrect facts,
things like misconceptions, misinformation, conspiracies.
They're not gonna be present in other languages.
And so it's not as easy as looking at,
okay, this model has a low hallucination rate.
What does that mean?
Or this model has good performance.
Does it have that performance in your domain?
How did they assess that?
So it's very boring, but actually it's not
because measurement's super sexy.
You need to think about this stuff.
It's really interesting, but it's challenging,
and it requires a lot of hard graph from you.
- Awesome, and while people will be watching this
in the future after your talk is out,
that talk will be on YouTube, right?
- Yes, it'll be recorded.
- Yeah, so people can check out your talk.
What's the title?
- Lies, Damn Lies and Large Language Models.
- Oh, I love it.
- It's the best title I've ever come up with.
- That is a good title, I love it.
Jessica, tools, libraries, packages?
- Maybe I'll plug my tutorial that was two days ago
and we'll also be recording somewhere at some point.
We were working on looking at monitoring
and observability of Python applications,
which could well be your AA, AI, LLM kind of thing,
and we're using a package called Code Carbon.
So it measures the carbon emissions of your code,
of your workload, so this is one way that we can start
to kind of get an idea of the impact
that we're having with these things.
I think it's a really great library.
It's open source, they're looking for contributors,
and it's not the full picture, of course,
because if you're using a cloud provider,
you also need to ask and follow up with them
to get further information.
- How much of there is renewable
versus non-renewable energy?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Is it a coal plant?
Please say it's not a coal plant.
- Yeah, yeah.
- We live in Germany.
- Germany's not too bad, but yeah,
there is a lot of coal in there.
So I think this is a great way to start
to think about it as technologists,
'cause often it's easy to see these problems
as something out of our control,
or beyond the scope of the work that we do as every day,
but I think there's still a lot that we actually can do.
- Make a huge difference.
And just as simple as, could we cache this output
and then reuse it, or let it run for five minutes
on the cluster, and oh, we're not that big of a hurry,
we'll just let it run over and over and over,
and then let it run in continuous integration, and--
- Exactly, yeah, exactly.
And I mean, the good thing there also is,
those things cost money too, so--
- Yeah, yeah.
- You don't just need to save the planet,
you can also save yourself some money
and spend it on something else.
- Exactly, it's not 100% the same,
but usually you have this benefit
that other people care more about money.
- As a business metric, it can be a bit easier to sell, yeah.
- Absolutely.
You know, I've had a couple of episodes on this previously,
but just give people a sense of how much energy
is in training some of these large models,
and since it's, on one of the shows that I talked to,
there was some research done that say,
training one of these large models just one time
is as much as, say, a person driving a car for a year
type of energy, and you're like, oh, that's no joke.
And so that might encourage you to run smaller models,
or things like that, which make a big difference.
- I think for a long time, we were thinking like,
oh, it's the training that's everything,
and then it's kinda like, fine, once the training's done,
but actually the inference is also just as compute heavy.
- When you see the slow words coming out,
that's pin CPUs right there.
- Yeah, 'cause it's autoregressive, it loops, yeah.
- I think it's, you have to look at it holistically.
I think it's very useful to have these metrics
that we compare to other things,
because then we get a sense of how daunting that is.
So I think comparing it to air travel,
or to cars and so forth is good,
but we tend to focus a little bit on like,
oh, it's just this part of the system,
and not the system as a whole.
- Well, I think the training was done a lot previously,
and the usage was done less,
and now the usage has just gone out of control.
Like, if you don't have AI in your,
I don't know, menu ordering app, it's a useless thing, right?
It's like, everybody needs it.
They don't really need it, I think,
but they think they need it,
or the VCs think they need it, or something.
- I think also, like, a lot of people might think,
oh, we need to train our own models,
but with things like RAG,
like retrieval augmentation generation,
that now a lot of vector database services
are promoting and educating people around how to do,
that's not true.
So you can take like, a base model,
and start to give it your data,
without the need to like, tune something yourself,
like, train something yourself, sorry.
- Yeah.
All right, we are very, very nearly out of time here, ladies.
We all have different things we gotta run off and do,
but let me just close out with some quick thoughts,
and really, this deserves maybe two hours,
but we've got two minutes.
For data scientists out there listening,
who are concerned that things like Copilot,
and Devon, and all these weird,
I'll write code for you things,
are going to make learning data science not relevant,
what do you think?
I think it's still gonna be super relevant, but.
- I think that it's gonna help a lot.
And I think that the code be seen as a potential useful tool
that could help to a lot of people.
It's even for beginners, for learning.
I think for people who is starting to code,
could be super useful to try to take a look with Copilot,
or with LLMs, and say, "Hey, I don't understand the code,
"can you explain to me what is happening in this function?"
Or something like that.
From here to be able to introduce an idea,
and have a production-ready code,
we are very far away, to be honest, right now.
We need more work,
and the field needs to improve a bit of that.
But I truly believe that's gonna help us a lot
at some point in time.
- I think maybe I'll take a different perspective,
and say that I think for data scientists,
the core concern for us is not really code,
it's more data, I guess.
- Oh, yeah, absolutely.
- So I think I'm seeing some potential,
even with our own tools at JetBrains,
to potentially help introduce people
to the idea of how to work with data.
But there's not really necessarily huge shortcuts here,
because you're still going to learn how to clean a data set,
and evaluate it for quality.
And so, the science part of data science,
I don't think it's ever gonna go away.
You still need to be able to think about business problems.
You still need to be able to think about data.
- We'll be there forever.
- It'll be there forever.
Thank God, it's so good.
(laughing)
- That's fun, yeah.
- Maybe as not a data scientist,
I can give a slightly different perspective.
I feel like, because it comes up
just for general programming all the time as well, right?
And I think one of the things that is, at the moment,
most hurting our industry,
is the lack of getting people into junior level jobs,
and not AI or any technology itself.
It's a very human problem.
As are pretty much all of the problems with AI itself.
So, I think, to be honest,
what we need to do is really hire more juniors,
make more entry level programs,
and get people into these positions,
and get them trained up on using the tools.
We don't need to gatekeep.
There's gonna be plenty of work for the rest of us,
for the next foreseeable future,
considering all the big social problems that we have to solve.
So, I just think we should do that.
- All right, well, let's leave it there.
Maria, Jodie, Jessica,
thank you so much for being on the show.
- Thank you. - Thank you very much.
It was amazing.
- Bye, everyone. - Bye.